# LINK TO ARTICLE: [AI ART](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/02/technology/ai-artificial-intelligence-artists.html)

This article refers to AI and its role in the art and with artists - namely, how people are using it to generate artwork or using it for publications, contests, etc. The article discusses how someone won an art competition "without breaking any rules" and doing so with AI-generated art. 

I find this incredibly interesting because AI-art is often trained off of a real person's style, and while art is subjective, I do think that AI-generated art is a form of 'stealing' (since as far as I know some software is trained off of a real person's style, and they didn't necessarily give consent), as well as having some moral and ethical questions in regards to how it is used. I do think many people are valid in being frustrated with how AI is used (and abused), regardless of how helpful a tool it may be.

### Comment by Carol Tsao
I agree that this is a bit blasphemous that AI art could win an art show when it's technically art made from "stealing" others work. Because the AI uses real artists' art to train its learning model for generation, it is technically plagiarizing other artists' work without their permission and then just slightly altering it to create an "original piece." I can see how this feat is frustrating for artists who put their time and effort in creating a piece of art that may mean something really important to them. AI only needs minutes or less to generate such a work, while artists need much more time. It may really kick artists out of a job in the future, which would almost be detrimental to the AI in a way as there would be less material for its learning model. I think there may be room for AI and artists to perhaps find a balance in what it can do to aid artists instead of stealing from them.

### Comments by Lucy Sun:
Thanks for sharing this article. Nowadays there have been increasing discussions about who is the owner of an AI-generated art. Is it the person who gives AI the idea or instructions, or is it the AI that generates the piece. While I believe there should be no limit in art, I actually think it is unfair for the actual artists who paints by hand to be in the same competition as AI. Instead, I think probably having two separate competitions--one with only man-made art and one only with AI-generated art--can be a better solution than simply saying "Art is dead". That way, we do not limit the transmission of ideas while paying full respect to those who paint on their own. 
